=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-sandbox-image - Sandbox container image tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  virt-sandbox-image COMMAND [ARGS...]

Valid B<COMMAND> values are:

    prepare             Download and cache an image template

    run                 Launch a sandbox from an image template

    delete              Delete a cached image template

    list                List cached image templates

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-sandbox-image> is used to launch sandboxes from pre-built container
image templates. It is able to download image templates in a number of
formats from online image registries, including those built for Docker
and virt-builder. The images can be run with either QEMU (KVM) or LXC
virtualization drivers.

Refer to the command specific manual pages for information about usage
of each command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message

=item B<-c URI>, B<--connect URI>

The connection URI for the hypervisor. The following URIs are currently
supported

 - lxc:///        (if running as root)
 - qemu:///system (if running as root)
 - qemu:///session (if running as non-root)

It is not permitted to use other virtualization drivers or non-local
URIs (ie URIs with a hostname) at this time.

=back

=head1 TEMPLATE URIs

virt-sandbox-image is intended to be extensible to consume any commonly
distributed container image format. To enable different image format
to be reliably located, a URI syntax is used to identify templates
with the general syntax

  B<format+protocol://server:port/template-name?parameters>

Refer to the text that follows for detailed information on URI
syntax for each different template format.

=head1 DOCKER TEMPLATE URIs

When refering to docker templates it is possible to leave out the
protocol, server port, and parameters, to just give the template
name on its own. For example

B<docker:///ubuntu>

Will refer to the latest Ubuntu image available on the default
Docker image registry.

If an alternative Ubuntu image is desired, it can be requested by
setting the tag parameter. For example to get Ubuntu 15.04

B<docker:///ubuntu?tag=15.04>

Support for downloading from alternative docker registries is
possible by specifying the protocol, server and (optionally)
port. For example, the bare B<docker:///ubuntu> URL above,
when fully specified would look like:

B<docker+https://index.docker.io:443/ubuntu?tag=latest>

The driver for Docker images does not currently support the full
range of configuration options that are possible in docker image
metadata. It will, however, honour all command line arguments
and environment variables specified.

=head1 VIRT BUILDER TEMPLATE URIs

When refering to virt-builder templates the protocol, server and
port should not currently be used. Only the template name should
be given in the URI. For example

B<virt-builder:///fedora-20>

The virt-builder template format does not provide any metadata
about default commands to run, so the user must fully specify
what they wish to launch when running these images.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-sandbox(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-prepare(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-run(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-purge(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-list(1)>

=head1 FILES

Pristine downloaded templates will be stored in subdirectories of
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>
(non-root) by default.

Overlay images created when running an instance of the template will
be stored in C</var/lib/libvirt/images> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/images>
(non-root) by default.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <dan@berrange.com>, Eren Yagdiran <erenyagdiran@gmail.com>
and Cédric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Red Hat, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

virt-sandbox is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
