=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-sandbox-image run - Launch a sandbox from an image template

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  virt-sandbox-image run [-h] [-n NAME] [-c CONNECT] [-t TEMPLATE_DIR]
                         [-I IMAGE_DIR] [-N NETWORK] [-e ENV]
                         TEMPLATE [--] [COMMAND [ARGS...]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-sandbox-image> is used to manage and execute application container
images in secure sandboxes. These applications will be launched via l
ibvirt and run within a virtualization technology such as LinuX Containers
(LXC), or QEMU/KVM. The containers / virtual machines will be secured by
SELinux and resource separated using cgroups.

The B<run> command will launch a sandbox populated with content from the
image name B<TEMPLATE>.

If B<COMMAND> is provided it determines the binary to run inside the sandbox.
If omitted, then the default binary for that image is run. Not all images
provide a default binary to run, and thus will launch to launch if no B<COMMAND>
is given. It is recommended to insert B<--> before B<COMMAND> to ensure that
any arguments for B<COMMAND> are not mistakenly interpreted as arguments for
B<virt-sandbox-image>

If the requested B<TEMPLATE> is not already present on the local system, it
will be automatically downloaded and cached, which may delay startup of the
sandbox. To avoid these delays the cache can be populated using the B<prepare>
command ahead of time, while unwanted cached content can be deleted using the
B<purge> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message

=item B<-c URI>, B<--run URI>

The connection URI for the hypervisor (lxc:///, qemu:///system or
qemu:///session only).

=item B<-n NAME>, B<--name=NAME>

Set the unique name for the sandbox. This defaults to the base
name of the template image used, with a random identifier appended.
This is used as the name of the libvirt virtual machine or container.

=item B<-t TEMPLATE_DIR>, B<--template-dir TEMPLATE_DIR>

Override the default location of the directory holding the image
templates.

=item B<-I IMAGE_DIR>, B<--image-dir IMAGE_DIR>

Override the default location of the directory holding the instantiated
images.

=item B<-N NETWORK>, B<--network NETWORK>

Add a network interface to the sandbox. NETWORK-OPTIONS is a set of
key=val pairs, separated by commas. The following options are valid

=over 4

=item dhcp

Configure the network interface using dhcp. This key takes no value.
No other keys may be specified. eg

  -N dhcp,source=default
  --network dhcp,source=lan

where 'source' is the name of any libvirt virtual network.

=item source=NETWORK

Set the name of the network to connect the interface to. C<NETWORK>
is the name of any libvirt virtual network. See also B<virsh net-list>

=item mac=NN:NN:NN:NN:NN:NN

Set the MAC address of the network interface, where each NN is a pair
of hex digits.

=item address=IP-ADDRESS/PREFIX%BROADCAST

Configure the network interface with the static IPv4 or IPv6 address
B<IP-ADDRESS>. The B<PREFIX> value is the length of the network
prefix in B<IP-ADDRESS>. The optional B<BROADCAST> parameter
specifies the broadcast address. Some examples

  address=192.168.122.1/24
  address=192.168.122.1/24%192.168.122.255
  address=2001:212::204:2/64

=item route=IP-NETWORK/PREFIX%GATEWAY

Configure the network interface with the static IPv4 or IPv6 route
B<IP-NETWORK>. The B<PREFIX> value is the length of the network
prefix in B<IP-NETWORK>. The B<GATEWAY> parameter specifies the
address of the gateway for the route. Some examples

  route=192.168.122.255/24%192.168.1.1

=back

Can be repeated multiple times to provide multiple virtual interfaces.

=item B<-e KEY=VAL>, B<--env KEY=VAL>

Set the environment variable B<KEY> to the value B<VAL> when running
the initial application defined by the image.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

Run the Ubuntu image, launching the default binary designated by the
image.

 # virt-sandbox-image run docker:///ubuntu

Run the Fedora image, launching the '/bin/ls' binary

 # virt-sandbox-image run docker:///fedora -- /bin/ls -l /

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-sandbox(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-prepare(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-purge(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-list(1)>

=head1 FILES

Pristine downloaded templates will be stored in subdirectories of
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>
(non-root) by default.

Overlay images created when running an instance of the template will
be stored in C</var/lib/libvirt/images> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/images>
(non-root) by default.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <dan@berrange.com>, Eren Yagdiran <erenyagdiran@gmail.com>
and Cédric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Red Hat, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

virt-sandbox is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
