=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-sandbox-image prepare - Download and cache an image template

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  virt-sandbox-image prepare [-h] [-c CONNECT] [-t TEMPLATE_DIR] template

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-sandbox-image> is used to manage and execute application container
images in secure sandboxes. These applications will be launched via l
ibvirt and run within a virtualization technology such as LinuX Containers
(LXC), or QEMU/KVM. The containers / virtual machines will be secured by
SELinux and resource separated using cgroups.

The B<prepare> command is used to proactively download and cache an image
template. This ensures that when the B<run> command is used later, it will
be able to launch the sandbox immediately. Use of this command is optional,
 since the B<run> command will automatically download image templates if
not already present in the cache.

The cache will contain both the downloaded image in its original native
format, and the same content extracted into qcow2 images formatted with
an ext4 filesystem.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message

=item B<-c URI>, B<--connect URI>

The connection URI for the hypervisor. The following URIs are currently
supported

 - lxc:///        (if running as root)
 - qemu:///system (if running as root)
 - qemu:///session (if running as non-root)

It is not permitted to use non-local URIs (ie URIs with a hostname)
at this time.

=item B<-t TEMPLATE_DIR>

Override the default template directory which is usually
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>.

=item B<template>

The URI identifying the template to download and prepare.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

Download and prepare a Docker Ubuntu 15.04 template for use with KVM

 # virt-sandbox-image prepare -c qemu:///session docker:///ubuntu?tag=15.04

Download and prepare a virt-builder Fedora 24 template for use with LXC

 # virt-sandbox-image prepare -c lxc:/// virt-builder:///fedora-24

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-sandbox(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-run(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-purge(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-list(1)>

=head1 FILES

Pristine downloaded templates will be stored in subdirectories of
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>
(non-root) by default.

Overlay images created when running an instance of the template will
be stored in C</var/lib/libvirt/images> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/images>
(non-root) by default.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <dan@berrange.com>, Eren Yagdiran <erenyagdiran@gmail.com>
and Cédric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Red Hat, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

virt-sandbox is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
