=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-sandbox-image purge - Delete a cached image template

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  virt-sandbox-image create [-h] [-c CONNECT] [-t TEMPLATE_DIR] template

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-sandbox-image> is used to launch sandboxes from a pre-built container
image template. It is able to download image templates in a number of
formats from online image registries, including those built for Docker
and virt-builder. The images can be run with either QEMU (KVM) or LXC
virtualization drivers.

The B<purge> command can be used to delete previously cached image templates.
Templates are added to the cache by the B<prepare> and B<run> commands, and
so if a template is no longer required, the space it used should be freed.
Some image distribution formats allow sharing of content between templates.
If there are multiple locally cached images sharing content, the shared
pieces will only be deleted when the last image template is removed.

It is the callers responsibility to ensure that the templates being deleted
are no longer required by any currently running sandboxes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message

=item B<-c URI>, B<--connect URI>

The connection URI for the hypervisor. The following URIs are currently
supported

 - lxc:///        (if running as root)
 - qemu:///system (if running as root)
 - qemu:///session (if running as non-root)

It is not permitted to use non-local URIs (ie URIs with a hostname)
at this time.

=item B<-t TEMPLATE_DIR>

Override the default template directory which is usually
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>.

=item B<template>

The URI identifying the template to download and prepare.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

To delete a Docker Ubuntu 15.04 template from the cache

 # virt-sandbox-image purge -c qemu:///session docker:///ubuntu?tag=15.04

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-sandbox(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-prepare(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-run(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-list(1)>

=head1 FILES

Pristine downloaded templates will be stored in subdirectories of
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>
(non-root) by default.

Overlay images created when running an instance of the template will
be stored in C</var/lib/libvirt/images> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/images>
(non-root) by default.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <dan@berrange.com>, Eren Yagdiran <erenyagdiran@gmail.com>
and Cédric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Red Hat, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

virt-sandbox is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
