=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-sandbox-image list - List cached image templates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  virt-sandbox-image list [-h] [-c CONNECT] [-t TEMPLATE_DIR] template

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-sandbox-image> is used to launch sandboxes from a pre-built container
image template. It is able to download image templates in a number of
formats from online image registries, including those built for Docker
and virt-builder. The images can be run with either QEMU (KVM) or LXC
virtualization drivers.

The B<list> command can be used to display the templates which are present
in the local cache. Existance of a cached template will allow the B<run>
command to launch sandboxes immediately. Unwanted templates in the cache
can be deleted using the B<purge> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display help message

=item B<-c URI>, B<--connect URI>

The connection URI for the hypervisor. The following URIs are currently
supported

 - lxc:///        (if running as root)
 - qemu:///system (if running as root)
 - qemu:///session (if running as non-root)

It is not permitted to use non-local URIs (ie URIs with a hostname)
at this time.

=item B<-t TEMPLATE_DIR>

Override the default template directory which is usually
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>.

=item B<template>

The URI identifying the template to download and prepare.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

Display a list of template images in the cache

 # virt-sandbox-image list -c qemu:///session


=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-sandbox(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-prepare(1)>,
C<virt-sandbox-image-run(1)>, C<virt-sandbox-image-purge(1)>

=head1 FILES

Pristine downloaded templates will be stored in subdirectories of
C</var/lib/libvirt/templates> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/templates>
(non-root) by default.

Overlay images created when running an instance of the template will
be stored in C</var/lib/libvirt/images> (root) or C<$HOME/.local/share/libvirt/images>
(non-root) by default.

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <dan@berrange.com>, Eren Yagdiran <erenyagdiran@gmail.com>
and Cédric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Red Hat, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

virt-sandbox is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL v2+.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
